# Affordable-Housing-And-Access-To-Higher-Education
small grant research project implemented by GIPA (Georgian Institute of Public Affairs) academic staff and students
In Georgia, those who live in Tbilisi have more access to higher education than those wholive in the regions and in the rural areas of the country. According to previous studies andempirical evidence, the main reasons for this are the social and economic challenges in thecountry. However, after Russia's invasion of Ukraine, there was a sharp increase in the priceof housing in Tbilisi, and the movement of people from the regions to the capital for thepurpose of education became even more difficult. As a result, the likelihood of wideningexisting inequalities has increased.Given these factors, the study was designed to examine the problems faced by students whograduated from regional schools and enrolled in universities in Tbilisi. The purpose of theresearch was to understand where, under what conditions, and with what problems regionalstudents live in Tbilisi and how these challenges affect their academic performance or well-being.The research combines the components of both quantitative and qualitative researchmethods to answer the questions posed. Based on the results of expert interviews (6), in-depth interviews with students (10), focus groups (4), and the online survey (399), it can besuggested that a significant number of students from the regions studying in Tbilisi faceserious financial, social, cultural, and health challenges. Their living conditions areprecarious, and they have difficulty in coping with the problems mentioned above.Approximately 34% of students suffer from a lack of basic social and financial capital, 34%from housing vulnerability, and 50% from psychological and emotional problems. Althoughthe data are not representative and caution should be exercised in interpreting orgeneralizing them, the same trends were observed in interviews with experts, in-depthinterviews with students, and focus groups. The triangulation of the data allows us to assumethat a significant proportion of students from the regions belong to vulnerable (approximately40%) or highly vulnerable (approximately 17%) subgroups.In addition, the following key findings can be summarized from the research:• Rising housing prices in Tbilisi have forced some students from the regions to abandontheir studies. Others have continued their studies at the expense of deteriorating housing
Page 8
7conditions. Some have taken jobs unrelated to their studies and are no longer able todevote adequate attention to their academic performance at universities.• A significant proportion of students do not have access to study facilities such as a placeto study (66%), a private room (55%) or a personal computer (43%).• One of the most common complaints among students is the lack of student housing,which is either non-existent or in poor condition. Few students find affordable and well-equipped student housing, so the vast majority of students from the regions must enterinto "unequal competition" with other apartment seekers to find a place to live in Tbilisi.• Students were also concerned about the lack of student-relevant jobs: in the currentsemester, 39% of students were working, although most of them noted that theiremployment was not related to their profession. They also mentioned that the workloadwas high and incompatible with their studies. About 23% of employed students workedfull-time (40 hours per week) and 30% worked overtime (more than 40 hours per week).• Low-paid jobs prevent even full-time students from achieving financial independence:they are still dependent on help from family or relatives.• A significant proportion of students suffer from mental health problems but have noaccess to psychological support services.• Universities do not provide adequate psychological support services for students: theseservices either do not exist or do not function properly, or students are not informedabout them, and higher education institutions need to raise awareness in this regard 

(PDF) ხელმისაწვდომი საცხოვრებელი და უმაღლესი განათლების ხელმისაწვდომობა: თბილისში რეგიონებიდან ჩარიცხული სტუდენტების კვლევა. Available from: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/373688738_khelmisatsvdomi_satskhovrebeli_da_umaghlesi_ganatlebis_khelmisatsvdomoba_tbilisshi_regionebidan_charitskhuli_studentebis_kvleva [accessed Jan 18 2024].
